24.0.0.4 draft (#3701)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2024-04-23-24.0.0.4.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "Support for Java 22 in 24.0.0.4"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Support for Java SE 22 in 24.0.0.4"
```

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ramkumar-k-9286
author_github: https://github.com/ramkumar-k-9286

> seo-title: Support for Java 22 in 24.0.0.4 - OpenLiberty.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seo-title: Support for Java SE 22 in 24.0.0.4 - OpenLiberty.io
```

> seo-description: The 24.0.0.4 release introduces support for Java SE 22 and updates several Open Liberty guides to use the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging 3.0, MicroProfile 6.1 and Jakarta EE 10 specifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seo-description: The 24.0.0.4 release introduces support for Java SE 22 and includes CVE fixes. We've also updated several Open Liberty guides to use MicroProfile Reactive Messaging 3.0, MicroProfile 6.1 and Jakarta EE 10.
```

> blog_description: The 24.0.0.4 release introduces support for Java SE 22 and updates several Open Liberty guides to use the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging 3.0, MicroProfile 6.1 and Jakarta EE 10 specifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blog_description: The 24.0.0.4 release introduces support for Java SE 22 and includes CVE fixes. We've also updated several Open Liberty guides to use MicroProfile Reactive Messaging 3.0, MicroProfile 6.1 and Jakarta EE 10.
```

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---

> = TITLE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Support for Java SE 22 in 24.0.0.4
```

        classpath 'io.openliberty.tools:liberty-gradle-plugin:3.8.2'
    }
}
apply plugin: 'liberty'
----

Or if you're using link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/container-images.html[container images]:

[source]
----
FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/start/[Downloads page].

If you're using link:https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14856-liberty-tools[IntelliJ IDEA], link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Open-Liberty.liberty-dev-vscode-ext[Visual Studio Code] or link:https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/liberty-tools[Eclipse IDE], you can also take advantage of our open source link:https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/develop-liberty-tools.html[Liberty developer tools] to enable effective development, testing, debugging and application management all from within your IDE. 

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/28136
// Contact/Reviewer: gjwatts
// // // // // // // // 
[#java_22]

> == Support for Java 22 in Open Liberty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Support for Java SE 22 in Open Liberty
```

> Java 22 is the latest release of Java, released in March 2024. It contains new features and enhancements over previous versions of Java. However, Java 22 is not a long-term support (LTS) release and support for it will be dropped when the next version of Java is supported. It offers some new functions and changes that you are going to want to check out for yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Java 22 is the latest release of Java, SE released in March 2024. It contains new features and enhancements over previous versions of Java. However, Java 22 is not a long-term support (LTS) release and support for it will be dropped when the next version of Java is supported. It offers some new functions and changes that you are going to want to check out for yourself.
```

* 423: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/423[Region Pinning for G1]
* 447: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/447[Statements before super(...) (Preview)]
* 454: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/454[Foreign Function & Memory API]
* 456: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/456[Unnamed Variables & Patterns]
* 457: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/457[Class-File API (Preview)]
* 458: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/458[Launch Multi-File Source-Code Programs]
* 459: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/459[String Templates (Second Preview)]
* 460: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/460[Vector API (Seventh Incubator)]
* 461: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/461[Stream Gatherers (Preview)]
* 462: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/462[Structured Concurrency (Second Preview)]
* 463: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/463[Implicitly Declared Classes and Instance Main Methods (Second Preview)]
* 464: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/464[Scoped Values (Second Preview)]

Take advantage of the new changes in Java 22 in Open Liberty now and get more time to review your applications, microservices, and runtime environments on your favorite server runtime!

> To use Java 22 with Open Liberty, just link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=22[download the latest release of Java 22] and install the link:{url-prefix}/downloads/#runtime_betas[24.0.0.4-beta] version of Open Liberty. Then, edit your Liberty link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/server-configuration-overview.html#server-env[server.env file] to point the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to your Java 22 installation and start testing today. The 24.0.0.4-beta release introduces beta support for Java 22. As we work toward full Java 22 support, please bear with any of our implementations of these functions that might not be ready yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Java 22 with Open Liberty, just link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=22[download the latest release of Java 22] and install the link:{url-prefix}/downloads/#runtime_releases[24.0.0.4] version of Open Liberty. Then, edit your Liberty link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/server-configuration-overview.html#server-env[server.env file] to point the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to your Java 22 installation and start testing today. 
```

For more information about Java 22, see the following resources:

* link:https://jdk.java.net/22/release-notes[Release notes]
* link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/22/docs/api/index.html[Javadocs]
* link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/22/migrate/index.html[Migration guide]
* link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=22[Download page]

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/28084
// Contact/Reviewer: gkwan-ibm
// // // // // // // // 

[#guides]
== 8 guides are updated to use MicroProfile Reactive Messaging 3.0

> The following 8 guides have been updated to use the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging 3.0, MicroProfile 6.1 and Jakarta EE 10 specifications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following 8 guides are updated to use the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging 3.0, MicroProfile 6.1 and Jakarta EE 10 specifications:
```

- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-reactive-messaging.html[Creating reactive Java microservices]
- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-reactive-messaging-acknowledgment.html[Acknowledging messages using MicroProfile Reactive Messaging]
- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-reactive-messaging-rest-integration.html[Integrating RESTful services with a reactive system]
- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-rest-client-async.html[Consuming RESTful services asynchronously with template interfaces]
- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/reactive-messaging-sse.html[Streaming updates to a client using Server-Sent Events]
- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/reactive-rest-client.html[Consuming RESTful services using the reactive JAX-RS client]
- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/reactive-service-testing.html[Testing reactive Java microservices]
- link:https://openliberty.io/guides/cloud-openshift-operator.html[Deploying microservices to OpenShift 4 using Kubernetes Operators]

> The integration tests in those guides have been updated to use Testcontainers. To learn how to test reactive Java microservices in true-to-production environments using Testcontainers, try out the link:https://openliberty.io/guides/reactive-service-testing.html[Testing reactive Java microservices] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, the integration tests in these guides are updated to use link:https://testcontainers.com[Testcontainers]. To learn how to test reactive Java microservices in true-to-production environments using Testcontainers, try out the link:https://openliberty.io/guides/reactive-service-testing.html[Testing reactive Java microservices] guide.
```

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

[#CVEs]
== Security vulnerability (CVE) fixes in this release
[cols="6*"]
|===
|CVE |CVSS score by X-Force® |Vulnerability assessment |Versions affected |Version fixed |Notes

|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2023-51775[CVE-2023-51775]
|7.5
|Denial of service
|21.0.0.3 - 24.0.0.3
|24.0.0.4

> |Affects the feature:openidConnectClient-1.0[], feature:socialLogin-1.0[], feature:mpJwt-1.2[], feature:mpJwt-2.0[], feature:mpJwt-2.1[], feature:jwt-1.0[] features

Reviewer: the feature macros wont work in blogs, so replace them w/ relative URLs, eg

link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/openidConnectClient-1.0.html[openidConnectClient-1.0]
